what's going on growers it's genius
because you only coming to you live from
Jersey we're about a week away from
January here but we're still eating
fresh greens from the garden and you can
too so today I want to show you how to
easily build your own hinged hoop house
for your raised bed garden let's go a
couple months ago I built this hinge
hoop house for the raised bed I have
here it's worked excellently last night
was about 17 18 degrees I think it got
down to and everything's still growing
fantastic we're eating the Greens from
it a few of you were interested how we
built it that's what I'm gonna show you
right now let's get started and get into
it right away so the first thing we need
to do is basically just cut out a frame
that's gonna match the exact size of the
top of this raised bed here that's why
we had these two by fours laid flat like
this not only is the edge nice to sit on
lean in but it's also gonna provide the
perfect space for us to build this hinge
hoop house on first thing you want to do
is take our two by fours match it up to
the length think about these as these
side pieces these pew by fours need to
run the full length of the of the raised
bed because we're gonna put our hinge on
this 2x4 here so we can open like this
so that's the direction it's gonna be
opening from we don't want to put the
hinge on this back to you by four that's
like this because over time as we lift
it
this side would start twisting from all
the torque so the first thing you want
to do is cut this top piece this top
piece that top piece and then the other
side top pieces
I got these two end pieces cut now I'm
just gonna lay them on top this is gonna
provide and create the frame for this
hoop house this hinge to pass so these
two sides are cut now we're just going
to take another 2x4 bump it up mark it
and then just cut that for that front in
the back we've got the last few pieces
of wood cut the front and the back so
we're just going to line those up place
them where they're supposed to go and
then we're gonna screw them together now
that we have the frame we'll cut we're
going to attach it together so what
we're gonna do is just pre-drill with
the countersink bit and if you can
notice here this piece is a little
twisted just because it's the piece of
wood so I'm going to try to take that
twist out of it while I while I attach
it so that's why I have that piece of
wood down there then we have three and a
half inch deck screws these aren't gonna
rust they're a good length we're gonna
put two screws in this one in each side
so we're gonna push this down and try to
take the twists out pretty good and then
one more on the other side now we're
going to do the other side you can see
it's still a little high so we're gonna
push that down that's we drill
flatten it out pretty good next we're
going to take these half-inch caps we're
gonna put one at the end on the outside
here and one at the end on the outside
here the reason we're gonna do that is
we're gonna take these uh this PVC we're
gonna attach it there and then make that
hoop and attach it on that side so these
are gonna hold them in the way we're
gonna do that is we're gonna drill a
hole in the bottom of this and then
attach it to the wood here I pre-drilled
these caps so when I put a screw in I
don't split it now we're gonna use the
screw it's uh I believe it's an inch and
a quarter we want it to be long enough
that it's strong but we don't want to uh
we don't wanna go through this piece of
wood and attach to the other one so we
want to put it in the inside corner the
reason we want to do this is because
this is gonna be one layer of a hoop
house if you want to put another hoop
house to have a double that's gonna be
on the outside so we want to make sure
we're putting on the inside this one we
got that first one in I'm going to go
around and do the same thing on the rest
all done with that now we're gonna cut
these two lengths the way to get the
length for these is its we want to make
a half circle so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna take the radius of this bed
so the radius of the bed is just the
distance from here to here would be the
diameter so we're gonna take half of
that which is gonna be the radius and
then multiply that times 3.14 or PI
that's gonna give us a perfect half
circle but what we're gonna do is
shorten that just by a couple inches
because if we want to have another hoop
house going above it we want to make
sure we have enough airspace between
sort of like this who pass right here
I'll show you here's the other hoop
house I built you can see there's a gap
here and I want an even bigger gap on
the next one so we're gonna make sure
that inside hoop is just a little
shorter a couple inches shorter than
perfectly half circle we have the two
end caps in now we're gonna measure the
distance between the two 45 inches we'll
divide that by two that will give us the
radius and then we'll multiply that
times 3.14 that'll give us the inches
and then we're just going to take a
couple more inches off after doing the
calculations the length of our halves
are
seventy inches but like I said we're
gonna take a little bit off so we're
gonna take two inches off and we're
gonna end with 68 inches as the length
of our half circle so we're gonna cut
three of those let's do it now we got
all the poles cut that are going to make
our hoops now let's attach them we've
got the three one here one here and one
all over there at the end
first we're just gonna slide this baby
in I'm gonna stand on it to give me more
leverage then we have to make sure we
slide these over these T's as you can
see three-quarters inch on that side and
then half inch here next we're just
gonna slide those over the half-inch
pole we need three of them two three
then we're going to attach this side and
you're going to want to stand on it so
the frame doesn't slide on you don't get
that in like that same thing on this end
in the middle we're not gonna need any
of the T's so let's get this side on the
three piece these are going to attach
the purlins the supports for us we're
gonna have one here going that way and
then two others so let's get up here get
this attached just like that and then
one more in the middle
just like that
next we want three supports we're gonna
have one up here one Midway here and one
on the other side that's where these
come into play
so we'll slide one on that side and
we'll do the top one first we're just
going to basically lightly put that in
just to get the distance slide this one
up and then just mark it for length and
we're gonna mark it a little long
because it needs to slide in so we'll do
that for the other two as well I got
those three pieces cut all to the same
length
let's get them attached now one up top
here attached to the side these you
don't want to make sure they're too
short so they don't bow it in you also
don't wanna make sure they're too long
curls bow it out now you can see the
frame starting to come together and we
need a frame like this because if it
snows and this some snow gets on this we
want to make sure that it's a it's not
gonna bow down too much get too heavy
and break the frame break the plastic or
anything so now that we have this piece
up here on top now let's attach it to
the frame how we're gonna do that is I'm
going to pre-drill I'm gonna make sure
it's centered I'm going to pre-drill
then I'm just going to put a screw in
just to hold it
so we're gonna pre-drill right in the
center here then just take a small screw
that's just gonna hold it in place there
got that top one done now we're gonna
take the side one and we're gonna Center
it by eye as best we could between the
these two so I think about there looks
good then we just can do the same thing
pre-drill and then screw to attach it
there we go the last piece is all
attached as you can see the frame is all
together looks good I'm happy with the
way it looks one thing you'll notice is
this piece is on the inside like I
mentioned because if we want to build
another hoop house on the outside for a
double we'd have to put it out here like
this
so we
the space that's why you want to make
sure you have that on the inside so I
have that double one over there I can
show you it but this is going to just be
a single for now and I may change it to
a double in the future now I'm gonna
attach these pieces right here and I
don't want to use a screw to attach them
because then the outside of this screw
is gonna be right here and I don't want
to put the plastic over the screw so
what I'm gonna do is make sure they're
Center and just tape them two together
just to attach it so okay has to go up
just a little bit to about there not
crazy just enough to hold it into place
and I use electrical tape because uh
it's waterproof next thing we're going
to do is take these furring strips and
just mark them for length so that one's
a little long we'll mark that and cut it
off
we want to make sure it's up against
this as much as we can so that if we
want to attach another hoop house we
have enough space all right I got those
two furring strips cut to length so
we'll just line these up again these are
going to be what my patches are plastic
to our frame so get these lined up here
then we're gonna take another one throw
it up here
bumped it up and now we'll just mark it
and we got those cut let's just make
sure they fit relatively good perfect
and then we'll do the same thing in the
other side then let's get the plastic on
now is the exciting time let's get the
plastic on so we're using six mil
greenhouse plastic you want to use the
good quality stuff and this is a large
sheet 12 by 28 because I'm probably
gonna do two layers with a double raised
bed hoop house I don't want to get it on
the ground but I have to a little bit
we're gonna drape it over at the top
here and then it unfolds a number of
times so we're gonna give ourselves a
nice overhang to help pull it down this
plastic to make it really tight I'll
just get this plastic cut and I'm
cutting it when it's folded like this
cause it's gonna make a lot easier for
me to cut it how much plastic you're
gonna need it really depends on the size
of your of your hoop house you're gonna
be building now let's unfold it
next if you're doing this by yourself
there's these clips you can clip it down
and then it'll help you hold it so you
could pull the plastic better so what
we're gonna do is attach one of these
clips up here and then one over here the
tighter we can get this the better so
that uh if it snows it doesn't sink in
and sit on it then we're gonna put two
more on the other side and I want to
pull this tight we've got our plastic
all on now we're gonna take this furring
strip and we pre-drilled holes set it
right up on here we have it cut to the
right length then we're just gonna drill
this down to hold the plastic then go on
the other side and pull it tight and do
the same thing we've got inch and a
quarter screws for this so we don't go
all the way through but we're still nice
and strong again we want to make sure
we're putting it up up as close as we
can to that this is really going to hold
the plastic in that side all attached
let's move to the other side now is
where we really want to get this really
tight the tighter we get this the better
it's gonna shed snow and stuff now we're
gonna start at one end on this end and
then work our way down so we'll start at
this end what we're gonna do is just do
my best to really pull this tight so
where I get that pull tight and screw it
in then just continue our way down
and one of the reasons I wanted to leave
it long was so I can get it tight like
this helps you to be able to pull it
it's long there we go
pretty tight it would be excellent to
shut off a snow and water looks good now
we're gonna put these end fur rings on
and then just put the hinges on finish
this baby up now we're gonna finish this
end up what we're gonna do is take the
sides and pull it basically to the
center as much as we can
plump it up a little get as tight as we
can and then we're gonna get that
furring strip up there
three drilled and pretty cut for us we
do the same thing again on this side
got those all attached the plastic looks
pretty tight I'm happy with it we can
always use clips to tighten it in some
spots if we really need to next what I
want to do is just go around and cut the
excess plastic the hoop house is all
finished now let's just attach the
hinges so we can open and close it well
do that and you can see where you have
this one 2x4 running the full length of
the bed that's what it has to be
attached to before we do that we want to
make sure all the corners line up and
then it's all flat then we're just going
to take this and attach it just like
this now that I know it's all good I'm
gonna just cut the plastic a little more
I don't want to have too much excess
hanging off now let's get some finishing
touches on put a little handle on it so
it's easy for us to open and close we'll
do that I just got a little stainless
steel handle when that's not gonna rust
so we'll just try to Center it there we
go
handle attached and they see the axis
beautiful
this basic version of the hinge to pass
is all finished this is the upgraded
model right here so I want to show you a
few things first of all you can see it's
two layers which I might put on the
other one second you'll see we've got
these hooks here attached to this green
wire which is metal on the inside the
reason we have that if if I'm a really
nice day we want to air this section out
I like to just put this here stick that
in there and then it holds if we get a
really strong wind gust this will
prevent it from getting ripped up and
you know thrown away one thing I wanted
to mention though is if you want to
build this in your own backyard
just make sure you don't live an area
that's super super windy if you're in a
location that isn't closed in like me
that gets an extreme amount of wind this
design might not even work for you so
think about that a little bit this is
the double layer it does so well for us
growing fantastic stuff here so it's
really easy to get that second layer on
if you copy the model that I showed you
this simple version then you could
easily attach another layer if you want
to see a video where I'm attaching the
second layer onto that one just let me
know we can get that going
that's need to be reversed thanks for
watching I hope you enjoyed it I hope
you got something out of it me and tuck
had a lot of fun out here building these
I hope you're encouraged to build your
own hinged hoop house it's not hard it's
a lot of fun and you can extend your
growing season in the spring and also in
the fall if you guys enjoyed the video
hit the like button hit the subscribe
button share with your friends don't
forget to check out the merge down low
me and tuck will be back at you again
with another one really soon we
[Music]